

## MHS Adaptor - Developer Notes

The following sections are intended to provide the necessary info on how to configure and run the MHS adaptor.

### Pre-requisites

You'll need to have a connection to Spine. For testing purposes, you can use [Opentest](https://nhs-digital-opentest.github.io/Welcome/index.html). 
See [Setup an OpenTest connection](../setup-opentest.md) for details.

Finally, ensure you have [Pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/en/latest/) installed and on your path, then within each of
the subfolders `common`, `inbound` and `outbound` in this directory, run:
```
pipenv install
```

### Developer Setup
To prepare a development environment for this application, ensure you have [Pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/en/latest/)
installed and on your path, then within each of the subfolders `common`, `inbound` and `outbound` in this directory, run:
```
pipenv install --dev
```

If the build fails due to dependency issues with proton, follow these instructions:
1) Visit: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/
2) Download the 'Community Edition'
3) Run the installer once the download has completed
4) Select the **Desktop development with C++** workload option
5) Once the installation has completed you may have to reboot.


## Running the MHS Adaptor locally
The MHS Adaptor is made up of multiple components, and running them all separately can be tedious. Instead, follow the steps described in
[running an MHS Adaptor locally](running-mhs-adaptor-locally.md) for how to run the required set of docker containers locally.

## API docs
MHS outbound (which is the API that suppliers use to make requests to the MHS) is documented using
[OpenAPI](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.2). These docs can be generated by running `pipenv run generate-openapi-docs` in
the `mhs/outbound` folder. The output of this command can be saved to a file, then transformed into another format (eg client
SDK, HTML docs) using various OpenAPI tools available online. For example:

```bash
pipenv run generate-openapi-docs > test.json
docker run --rm -v ${PWD}:/local  openapitools/openapi-generator-cli generate -g html -i /local/test.json -o /local/out/html
```

generates HTML docs. An invocation of this command can be seen
[here](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/nhsconnect/integration-adaptors/blob/develop/mhs/outbound/openapi-docs.html).

### Environment Variables
MHS takes a number of environment variables when it is run. Some of the variables are environment specific (OpenTest, PTL and if necessary the Fakespine).  You can find more information on environment config values in the [OpenTest](https://digital.nhs.uk/services/spine/open-access-test-environment-for-spine-opentest) and [Path To Live](https://digital.nhs.uk/services/path-to-live-environments) portal pages.
The list of environment variables are:
* `MHS_LOG_LEVEL` This is required to be set to one of: `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR` or `CRITICAL`, where `INFO` displays
the most logs and `CRITICAL` displays the least. Note: Setting this value to one of the more detailed 'standard' Python
log levels (such as `DEBUG` or `NOTSET`) may result in the libraries used by this application logging details that
contain sensitive information such as the content of messages being sent.
* `MHS_SECRET_PARTY_KEY` (inbound & outbound only) The party key associated with your MHS.
* `MHS_SECRET_CLIENT_CERT` Your endpoint certificate
* `MHS_SECRET_CLIENT_KEY` Your endpoint private key
* `MHS_SECRET_CA_CERTS` Should include the following in this order: endpoint issuing subCA certificate, root CA Certificate.
* `MHS_STATE_TABLE_NAME` (inbound & outbound only) The name of the DB table used to store MHS state.
* `MHS_SYNC_ASYNC_STATE_TABLE_NAME` (inbound & outbound only) The table name used to store sync async responses
* `MHS_STATE_STORE_MAX_RETRIES'` (inbound & outbound only) The max number of retries when attempting to interact with either the work description or sync-async store. Defaults to `3`
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_TRANSMISSION_MAX_RETRIES` (outbound only) This is the maximum number of retries for outbound requests. If no value is given a default of `3` is used.
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_TRANSMISSION_RETRY_DELAY` (outbound only) The delay between retries of outbound requests in milliseconds. If no value is given, a default of `100` is used.
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_HTTP_PROXY` (outbound only) An optional http(s) proxy to route downstream requests via. Note that the proxy must passthrough https requests transparently.
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_HTTP_PROXY_PORT` (outbound only) The http(s) proxy port to use. Ignored if `MHS_OUTBOUND_HTTP_PROXY` is not provided. Defaults to `3128`.
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_VALIDATE_CERTIFICATE` (outbound only) Verification of the server certificate received when making a connection to the spine MHS.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_BROKERS` (inbound only) The url(s) of the amqp inbound queue broker(s). e.g. `amqps://example.com:port`. Note that if the amqp connection being used is a secured connection (which it should be in production), then the url should start with `amqps://` and not `amqp+ssl://`. This URL should not include the queue name. Can be a coma-separated list or urls for HA
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_NAME` The name of the queue on the broker identified by `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_BROKERS` to place inbound messages on. e.g `queue-name`
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_MESSAGE_TTL_IN_SECONDS` Defines Time-To-Live of inbound queue messages
* `MHS_SECRET_INBOUND_QUEUE_USERNAME` (inbound only) The username to use when connecting to the amqp inbound queue.
* `MHS_SECRET_INBOUND_QUEUE_PASSWORD` (inbound only) The password to use when connecting to the amqp inbound queue.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_MAX_RETRIES` (inbound only) The max number of times to retry putting a message onto the amqp inbound queue. Defaults to `3`.
* `MHS_INBOUND_QUEUE_RETRY_DELAY` (inbound only) The delay in milliseconds between retrying putting a message onto the amqp inbound queue. Defaults to `100`ms.
* `MHS_SYNC_ASYNC_STORE_MAX_RETRIES'` (inbound only) The max number of retries when attempting to add a message to the sync-async store. Defaults to `3`
* `MHS_SYNC_ASYNC_STORE_RETRY_DELAY` (inbound only) The delay in milliseconds between retrying placing a message on the sysnc-async store. Defaults to `100`ms
* `MHS_RESYNC_RETRIES` (outbound only) The total number of attempts made to the sync-async store during resynchronisation, defaults to `20`
* `MHS_RESYNC_INTERVAL` (outbound only) The time in between polls of the sync-async store, the interval is in seconds and defaults to `1`
* `MHS_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_URL` (outbound only) The URL of the Spine route lookup service. E.g `https://example.com`. This URL should not contain path or query parameter parts.
* `MHS_SPINE_ORG_CODE` (outbound only) The organisation code for the Spine instance that your MHS is communicating with. E.g `YES`
* `MHS_FORWARD_RELIABLE_ENDPOINT_URL` (outbound only) The URL to communicate with Spine for Forward Reliable messaging
* `MHS_RESYNC_INITIAL_DELAY` (Outbound service only) The initial delay (in seconds) before making the first poll to the sync-async
    store after the outbound service receives an acknowledgement from Spine
* `MHS_SPINE_REQUEST_MAX_SIZE` (outbound service only) The maximum size (in bytes) that request bodies sent to Spine
are allowed to be. This should be set minus any HTTP headers and other content in the HTTP packets sent to Spine.
e.g. Setting this to ~400 bytes less than the maximum request body size should be roughly the correct value
(calculating this value accurately is pretty much impossible as one of the HTTP headers is the Content-Length header
which varies depending on the request body size).
* `MHS_DB_ENDPOINT_URL` The URL for the adaptors DB
* `MHS_CLOUD_REGION` Cloud region that the adaptor has/will be been deployed to
* `MHS_PERSISTENCE_ADAPTOR` Used to determine the type of persistence adaptor to implement (dynamodb/mongodb)  
* `MHS_LOG_FORMAT` #[%(asctime)sZ] | %(levelname)s | %(process)d | %(interaction_id)s | %(message_id)s | %(correlation_id)s | (inbound_message_id)s | %(name)s | %(message)s"
* `MHS_INBOUND_USE_SSL` Boolean for the use of SSL. Only for testing purpose to facilitate local development debugging
* `MHS_INBOUND_SERVER_PORT` Define a specific port when connecting to the Inbound service. Defaults to '443'
* `MHS_INBOUND_HEALTHCHECK_SERVER_PORT` Define a specific port when connecting to the Inbound Healthcheck service. Defaults to '8082'
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_SERVER_PORT` Define a specific port when connecting to the Outbound service. Defaults to '80'
* `MHS_OUTBOUND_ROUTING_LOOKUP_METHOD` Define which lookup method to use for routing and reliability. One of `SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP` or `SDS_API`

Following variables are required if `MHS_OUTBOUND_ROUTING_LOOKUP_METHOD` is set to `SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP`
* `MHS_LAZY_LDAP` use lazy connection from spine route lookup component to SPINE LDAP service
* `MHS_SECRET_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_CLIENT_CERT` (outbound only) Optional. The client certificate to present when making HTTPS connections to the Spine Route Lookup service. If not specified, no client certificate will be presented.
* `MHS_SECRET_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_CLIENT_KEY` (outbound only) Optional. The private key for the client certificate to present when making HTTPS connections to the Spine Route Lookup service. Must be specified if `MHS_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_CLIENT_CERT` is provided.
* `MHS_SECRET_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_CA_CERTS` (outbound only) Optional. The CA certificates used to validate the certificate presented by the Spine Route Lookup service. Should include the following in this order: endpoint issuing subCA certificate, root CA Certificate. If not specified, the system defaults will be used.
* `MHS_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_HTTP_PROXY` (outbound only) An optional http(s) proxy to route requests to the Spine Route Lookup service via. Note that the proxy must pass through https requests transparently.
* `MHS_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_HTTP_PROXY_PORT` (outbound only) The http(s) proxy port to use for the Spine Route Lookup service proxy. Ignored if `MHS_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_HTTP_PROXY` is not provided. Defaults to `3128`.
* `MHS_SDS_URL` (Spine Route Lookup service only) The URL to communicate with SDS on. e.g. `ldaps://example.com`
* `MHS_SDS_SEARCH_BASE` (Spine Route Lookup service only) The LDAP location to use as the base of SDS searches, e.g. `ou=services,o=nhs`. This value is specific to the SDS instance you configure your MHS to communicate with and should not contain whitespace.
* `MHS_DISABLE_SDS_TLS` (Spine Route Lookup service only) An optional flag that can be set to disable TLS for SDS
connections. *Must* be set to exactly `True` for TLS to be disabled.
* `MHS_SDS_CACHE_EXPIRY_TIME` (Spine Route Lookup service only). An optional value that specifies the time (in seconds)
that a value should be held in the SDS cache. Defaults to `900` (fifteen minutes)
* `MHS_SDS_REDIS_CACHE_HOST` (Spine Route Lookup service only). The Redis host to use when caching SDS information
retrieved from SDS.
* `MHS_SDS_REDIS_CACHE_PORT` (Spine Route Lookup service only). An optional value that specified the port to use when
connecting to the Redis host specified by `MHS_SDS_REDIS_CACHE_HOST`. Defaults to `6379`.
* `MHS_SDS_REDIS_DISABLE_TLS` (Spine Route Lookup service only) An optional flag that can be set to disable TLS for
connections to the Redis cache used by the Spine Route Lookup service. *Must* be set to exactly `True` for TLS to be
disabled.
* `MHS_SPINE_ROUTE_LOOKUP_SERVER_PORT`Define a specific port when connecting to the Spint Route Lookup service. Defaults to '80'
* `MHS_LDAP_CONNECTION_RETRIES` Retry attempt value when attempting LDAP connection 
* `MHS_LDAP_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT_IN_SECONDS` Timeout value when attempting LDAP connection

Following variables are required if `MHS_OUTBOUND_ROUTING_LOOKUP_METHOD` is set to `SDS_API`
* `MHS_SDS_API_URL` URL to SDS API. e.g. `https://sandbox.api.service.nhs.uk/spine-directory/FHIR/R4`
* `MHS_SDS_API_KEY` api key to authenticate with when sending requests to SDS API

Note that if you are using Opentest, you should use the credentials you were given when you got access to set `MHS_SECRET_PARTY_KEY`, `MHS_SECRET_CLIENT_CERT`, `MHS_SECRET_CLIENT_KEY` and `MHS_SECRET_CA_CERTS`.

## Running Unit Tests
- `pipenv run unittests` will run all unit tests.
- `pipenv run unittests-cov` will run all unit tests, generating a [Coverage](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/) report
in the `test-reports` directory.
- `pipenv run coverage-report` will print the coverage report generated by `unittests-cov`
- `pipenv run coverage-report-xml` will produce an XML version of the coverage report generated by `unittests-cov`, in a
[Cobertura](http://cobertura.github.io/cobertura/) compatible format
- `pipenv run coverage-report-html` will produce an HTML version of the coverage report generated by `unittests-cov`

## Coverage
`pipenv run unittests-cov` will run all unit tests with coverage enabled. \
`pipenv run coverage-report-xml` will generate an xml file which can then be submitted for coverage analysis.

## Analysis
To use sonarqube analysis you will need to have installed `sonar-scanner`. \
Ensure sonar-scanner is on your path, and configured for the sonarqube host with appropriate token.
 (See: [SonarQube](https://gpitbjss.atlassian.net/wiki/x/XQFfXQ))\
`sonar-scanner` will use `sonar-project.properties` to submit source to sonarqube for analysis. \
NOTE: Coverage will not show in the analysis unless you have already generated the xml report (as per above.)

## Running Integration Tests
See the [integration tests README](../integration-tests/integration_tests/README.adoc).

Timeouts received whilst waiting for a response from Spine on a Windows machine could be due to the machine rejecting incoming connections on port 443. In order to open the port, follow these instructions:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/create-an-inbound-port-rule

Any content POSTed to `/` on port 80 will result in the request configuration for the `Interaction-Id` header in
`data/interactions.json` being loaded and the content sent as the body of the request to Spine. Adding entries to
`interactions.json` will allow you to define new supported interactions.

## Creating a release

### Releasing the main images

First identify which is the most recent commit within GitHub which contains only changes which are marked as Done within Jira.
You can also review what commits have gone in by using the git log command or IDE.

Make a note of the most recent Release within GitHub, and identify what the next version number to use will be.

Create a new release within GitHub, specifying the tag as the version to use (e.g. 1.2.9), and the target being the commit you identified.
Click on the "Generate release notes" button and this will list all the current changes from the recent commit.

CD into `released scripts` folder and update the `/release.sh`, changing the `BUILD_TAG` value to match the release created above.
Update the `CHANGELOG.md` file, copying the release information within the GitHub release.
Raise a PR for your changes.

Once your changes have been merged, log into DockerHub using the credentials stored within our AWS accounts Secrets Manager, secret name `nhsdev-dockerhub-credentials` in London region.
Go to AWS Management Console > Secrets Manager then find the option 'retrieve keys'. 

If you have not created a release before then you will first need to create a new docker builder instance using `docker buildx create --use`. 

Execute `./release.sh`.

Log out of DockerHub.
